+++
author = "Mari Donkers"
title = "Julia programming language"
date = "2018-03-23"
description = "A high-level, high-performance dynamic programming language for numerical computing. It provides a sophisticated compiler, distributed parallel execution, numerical accuracy, and an extensive mathematical function library. – Julia."
featured = false
tags = [
    "Computer",
    "Software",
    "AI",
    "Machine Learning",
    "Data Science",
    "Scientific Computing",
    "Numerical",
    "Julia",
]
categories = [
    "julia",
    "ai",
]
series = ["Julia", "AI"]
aliases = ["2018-03-23-julia"]
thumbnail = "/images/julia.svg"
+++

A high-level, high-performance dynamic programming language for numerical computing. It provides a sophisticated compiler, distributed parallel execution, numerical accuracy, and an extensive mathematical function library. – [Julia](https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia) (by [JuliaLang](https://julialang.org/)).
<!--more-->

# Julia

Julia is the fastest high performance open source computing language for data, analytics, algorithmic trading, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and many other domains. Julia solves the two language problem by combining the ease of use of Python and R with the speed of C++. Julia provides parallel computing capabilities out of the box and unlimited scalability with minimal effort.

Julia's Base library, largely written in Julia itself, also integrates mature, best-of-breed open source C and Fortran libraries for linear algebra, random number generation, signal processing, and string processing.

# Multiple dispatch

Julia programs are organized around multiple dispatch, which allows built-in and user-defined functions to be overloaded for different combinations of argument types.

# Metaprogramming

The strongest legacy of Lisp in the Julia language is its metaprogramming support. Like Lisp, Julia represents its own code as a data structure of the language itself. Since code is represented by objects that can be created and manipulated from within the language, it is possible for a program to transform and generate its own code. This allows sophisticated code generation without extra build steps, and also allows true Lisp-style macros operating at the level of abstract syntax trees.

# Design goals

Julia has been built from the ground up for scientific computing, machine learning, data mining, large-scale linear algebra, distributed and parallel computing.

# Articles

- [Julia vs. Python: Julia language rises for data science](https://www.infoworld.com/article/3241107/python/julia-vs-python-julia-language-rises-for-data-science.html)
- [Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence](https://juliacomputing.com/domains/ml-and-ai.html)
