+++
author = "Mari Donkers"
title = "Racket programming language"
date = "2018-03-27"
description = "Racket is a general-purpose programming language as well as the world's first ecosystem for developing and deploying new languages. – Racket."
featured = false
tags = [
    "Computer",
    "Software",
    "Functional Programming",
    "Lisp",
    "Racket",
]
categories = [
    "lisp",
    "racket",
]
series = ["Racket", "Lisp"]
aliases = ["2018-03-27-racket"]
thumbnail = "/images/racket.svg"
+++

Racket is a general-purpose programming language as well as the world's first ecosystem for developing and deploying new languages. – [Racket](http://racket-lang.org/) (by **[The Racket Manifesto](http://felleisen.org/matthias/manifesto/index.html)**).
<!--more-->

# Racket

Batteries included –Racket's extensive standard library gets your projects off the ground quickly.

Cross-platform –Racket runs on Linux, macOS, and Windows. Develop on one; deploy to all three.

Powerful macros & languages –Racket's crown jewel is its macro system, which lets you freely extend the language.

Mature, stable, open source – Racket is a mature LGPL project that's actively developed and maintained.

DrRacket IDE & tons of documentation –DrRacket is a graphical IDE that's integrated with Racket's vast documentation.

The best of Scheme and Lisp –Racket started life as a Scheme implementation, but then grew into new areas.

# The principles of Racket

1.  Racket is about creating new programming languages quickly.
2.  Racket provides building blocks for strong protection mechanisms.
3.  Racket turns extra-linguistic mechanisms into linguistic constructs

(From [The Principles of Racket](http://felleisen.org/matthias/manifesto/The_Principles_of_Racket.html).)
